- The JdbcPagingItemReader
is another item reader implementation that is necessary
when working in multi-threaded scenarios
with a relational database.
Its configuration is very similar
to the JdbcCursorItemReade,
aside from a small difference or two.
Let's dive in and see the JdbcPagingItemReader in action.
So to get started, we're going to switch the implementation
of our item reader.
And to do that, we need to change the builder
that we're using to construct that item reader.
Now, just like the JdbcCursorItemReade has a builder,
so does the JdbcPagingItemReader.
So we'll make that switch and go ahead and import the type.
Now you'll notice that the interface
on that builder is a little bit different.
We're no longer supplying the SQL directly
within the configuration of the item reader.
Instead, we're going to use a query provider
in order to construct our SQL statement.
This is important because with the paging,
it's a little bit complex.
So for now, I'm just going to go ahead
and provide a stub for our query provider.
We'll define it in that method in a moment.
Now the other thing that needs to be configured
on the JdbcPagingItemReader is the page size.
And this is going to specify how many items are in a page
so that when this item reader is reading from the database,
it reads that amount of items.
Now it's important that our page size
also matches our chunk size.
So you'll notice right now we have a discrepancy,
the chunk is three and the page size is 10.
Let's go ahead and sync those up.
And now we can proceed with building out our query provider.
I'm just going to hover over this stub method
and hit Control + One, and that allows us
to easily create the method.
And then I'm just going to place it above the configuration
of our item reader.
The paging query provider is going to be defined as a bean.
So I'm going to annotate the method
with the bean annotation, and then declare it as public.
Now inside of this method, we're going to build out
our paging query provider.
So there's an implementation we're going to use.
It's the SQL paging query provider.
And we create that implementation using a factory bean.
So I'm going to create a new factory bean
and we can just use the new operator and the constructor
to create that factory bean.
And it's going to provide us with some methods
that help us construct our paging query provider.
So the first of those methods is the setSelectclause.
So we can navigate to the top of our class,
and we can use the order SQL field
to grab that SELECT statement.
So here you can see that we select
all of the different fields within our table,
and we can just paste that within the setSelectclause.
It needs to be a string,
so we'll want to start with a quote,
and then we paste in the remainder of the SQL statement,
and that ends our configuration of the setSelectclause.
Now we'll need to specify the FROM clause.
So this is going to be the table
that we would like to read from.
If you remember, we are reading
from the shipped underscore order table,
so we just specified that as a string.
And then we're going to go ahead and set our sort key.
Remember sorts are very important when we're working
with these different item readers
that query a relational database.
And then finally, we're going to set the data source
on this factory bean so that we can have a connection
to our relational database.
From there, all we need to do is use the factory
to create the object, and that's done
by calling the GetObject method.
Now the other thing you'll notice is
that this factory does throw an exception.
So we're going to need to propagate that exception
through our call stack, in order to be able to handle it.
If that exception were to be thrown,
it would cause our job to fail,
but you'll notice how we're sending it up through the step,
and then ultimately throwing it from our job.
So everything is configured,
we have a JdbcPagingItemReader,
and that item reader will read pages of data
from a relational database.
And the key point about this, it's thread safe
so we can use this in a multi-threaded scenario.
So let's now head over to the terminal
and we're going to go ahead and kick off this job.
So our projects going to be packaged into a jar,
and then once that jar is built,
our script we'll execute it.
There we can see we are reading data
from the database using our JdbcPagingItemReader.
One interesting thing to point out
about this item reader is the complexity of paging
within a database.
It typically varies by your database implementation.
Within this implementation, it is intelligent enough
to detect what database you're using,
and it will construct the appropriate paging query in order
for the item reader to appropriately pull data
from the data source.
So this is one of those benefits you get out of the box
from Spring Batch and it's item reader implementations.